1. Reward & Punishment Superresponse Tendency: Get your hardest work done before rewarding yourself.
2. Liking/Loving Tendency: In-group favoritism and Be aware​of how liking or loving others distorts your logic.
3. Disliking/Hating Tendency: The opposite of the liking/loving tendency.
4. Doubt/Avoidance Tendency: Force yourself to​ take a break a​nd/or delay before making a decision.
5. Inconsistency-Avoidance Tendency: Realize that​ every action you take leads to good habits or bad habits.​ “At his peak, Einstein was a great destroyer of his own ideas.”
6. Curiosity Tendency: Curiosity not only counters the negative effects of our psychological tendencies, it also lets us enjoy the process of learning and acquiring knowledge.
7. Kantian Fairness Tendency: As early as 15 months, b​abies can recognize the concept of fairness​w​hen it comes to sharing food.​
8. Envy/Jealousy Tendency: Disarm​ other people’s jealousy of you w​ith vulnerability. Practice mindfulness.
9. Reciprocation Tendency: Start a relationship by giving something, even if it’s small. Negotiate by asking for something big and unrealistic at first, and then when the person says no, ask for something that is smaller that is the ultimate thing you wanted anyway. Use the ‘foot in the door’ technique (a.k.a., F​ranklin Effect)​ by asking for something small that everyone will say yes to and then increase the sizes of the asks.
10. Influence-From-Mere-Association Tendency: Carefully examine each past success, looking for accidental, non­causative factors associated with such success that will tend to mislead as one appraises odds implicit in a proposed new undertaking.
11. Pain-Avoiding Psychological Denial: Find a way to always keep yourself open to the facts of any situation so you can make the most sound choices.
12. Excessive Self-Regard Tendency: Of all forms of useful pride, perhaps the most desirable is a justified pride in being trustworthy.
13. Over-Optimism Tendency: "What a man wishes, that also will he believe.” ­ Demosthenes
14. Deprival-Superreaction Tendency: We tend to intensely react to any real loss or potential loss irrationally.​
15. Social-Proof Tendency: In the presence of doubt, inaction by others becomes social proof that inaction is the right course.
16. Contrast-Misreaction Tendency: Train yourself to n​otice small changes that other people miss. Train yourself to m​ake small changes to your habits.​
17. Stress-Influence Tendency: Listen to your body. W​hen you feel persistently overwhelmed, take a step back. Meditate. Rest, nap, sleep.
18. Availability-Misweighing Tendency: Train yourself to brainstorm all possibilities​openly rather than jumping on your first conclusions.
19. Authority-Misinfluence Tendency: We also trust leaders in areas where they are not experts. This is known as the H​alo Effect.​
20. Twaddle Tendency: People tend to talk a lot about things they’re not an expert in.
21. Reason-Respecting Tendency: Keep track of the evidence for your valid beliefs so that when you explain it to others, it makes sense.
22. Lollapalooza Tendency: When you combine two forces together, you don’t get simple addition, you get a nuclear explosion.

Checklist:
● What is causing me to do this?
● What is the context?
● Can I judge him?
● What is in his self­interest to do?
● What are the psychological tendencies and shortcuts that influence him and can cause misjudgment?
● What are the consequences?
● What system would I like to have if the roles were reversed?
● Is this the right system?

IDEAS should be ESERENA - Emotional, Story-based, Entertaining, Risky, Experimental, Novel, Authentic! SERANEE